<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 6</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3>CHAPTER VI</h3>
			<h2>PINOCCHIO'S FEET BURN TO CINDERS</h2>
			<p>It was a wild and stormy night. The thunder was tremendous and the lightning so vivid that the sky seemed on fire.</p>
			<p>Pinocchio had a great fear of thunder, but hunger was stronger than fear. He therefore closed the house door and made a rush for the village, which he reached in a hundred bounds, with his tongue hanging out and panting for breath like a dog after game.</p>
			<p>But he found it all dark and deserted. The shops were closed, the windows shut, and there was not so much as a dog in the street. It seemed the land of the dead.</p>
			<p>Pinocchio, urged by desperation and hunger, took hold of the bell of a house and began to ring it with all his might, saying to himself:</p>
			<p>"That will bring somebody."</p>
			<p>And so it did. A little old man appeared at a window with a night-cap on his head and called to him angrily:</p>
			<p>"What do you want at such an hour?"</p>
			<p>"Would you be kind enough to give me a little bread?"</p>
			<p>"Wait there, I will be back directly," said the little old man, thinking it was one of those rascally boys who amuse themselves at night by ringing the house-bells to rouse respectable people who are sleeping quietly.</p>
			<p>After half a minute the window was again opened and the voice of the same little old man shouted to Pinocchio:</p>
			<p>"Come underneath and hold out your cap."</p>
			<p>Pinocchio pulled off his cap; but, just as he held it out, an enormous basin of water was poured down on him, soaking him from head to foot as if he had been a pot of dried-up geraniums.</p>
			<p>He returned home like a wet chicken, quite exhausted with fatigue and hunger; and, having no longer strength to stand, he sat down and rested his damp and muddy feet on a brazier full of burning embers.</p>
			<p>And then he fell asleep, and whilst he slept his feet, which were wooden, took fire, and little by little they burnt away and became cinders.</p>
			<p>Pinocchio continued to sleep and to snore as if his feet belonged to some one else. At last about daybreak he awoke because some one was knocking at the door.</p>
			<p>"Who is there?" he asked, yawning and rubbing his eyes.</p>
			<p>"It is I!" answered a voice.</p>
			<p>And Pinocchio recognized Geppetto's voice.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
